{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 "Wings of Fire" is an account of a young boy who tries to achieve his dreams beating all odds. The story emphasizes the importance of family, relatives and friends in helping achieve each other's goals and turning dreams to reality. It teaches us to become a patriotic citizen of our country shown in the book as a determinant India and countless effort of its scientists in achieving superiority in aeronautical, space and rocket technology.\par
\par
This book offers an important lesson of finding success from failures of Indian space and rocket infrastructural programs. A good presentation of the role of other renowned scientists moulding our country's future. This book is full of information and is a recommended choice for every student, because this book has the influence and power to motivate a person to stand out in life. "Wings of Fire" is a unique model of accomplishing one's goals, while fulfilling the promise to its country.\par
\par
As I read through this book I felt the same humility that Mr.Kalam felt when he was engaged into the program. A friend recommended me this book and I am glad that he did.\par
\par
This book is an biography of India's president Abdul Kalam which has been co-authored with famous Arun Tiwari, who once had worked with Kalam in the field of military defense research. As from the book itself, "this is the story of Kalam who flourished from darkness into the bright sunlight, his personal and professional effort. . . . . . . This is also the narrative of independent India's struggle for technological self adequacy & sovereignty in defense systems - a story as much regarding politics, as it is regarding science."\par
\par
The story tells us about Kalam's rise from a humble lower-middle class family & his narrative of India's efforts in rocketry & space technology. Segregated into four sections, the book gradually reaches for the stars - Orientation, Creation, Propitiation & Contemplation. As a tribute to his mother and father, the book is dedicated to his parents.\par
\par
The first segment relates to the early life of Avul Pakir Jainulabdeen Kalam. His recollections of the early days are very suggestive of good old Magudi set up. He remembers his parents, relatives and teachers his most influential characters in the book. Adding color to the section are pictures of that time. This segment covers all his early learning and travels.The next segment is related to Kalam's further education and work experience and his involvement with projects of military defense and space, primarily the SLV3. This part has many scientific details and is an introduction to defense and space research organizations. Kalam is an 'aam aadmi' at heart, this is shown in the book in many of his narratives through his interaction with even the insignificant people in the hierarchy like Dr Brahm prakash, Prof Satish Dhawan and Prof Vikram Sarabhai.\par
\par
The third segment covers the years from 80-91 when Kalam is posted from ISRO to military defense labs. Filled with many pictures, this section too keeps us entertained. And to imagine he worked mostly in government institutions where bureaucracy and red tapes are the order of the day.\par
\par
We have all heard of SLV3, PSLV, Akaash, Naga, Agni, Trishul in the news and these technological achievements marks the success of what is now, one of the strongest and determined aeronautical and space organization of India.\par
\par
The last segment is connected with the later years where Kalam is bestowed upon with series of awards, his thought and his visions for a proud India. It is almost impossible not to be inspired by the life of Mr.Kalam. This segment along with the conclusion also mentions of Kalams dream for the year 2020.\par
\par
The book itself is written in simple English and it seems as if the author is speaking out to the reader directly. One must read this for the following reasons - India's greatest scientist Abdul Kalam's story, military and defense research, missile technology, India's vital space programs and general knowledge. Throughout the book there are morals that are for the grooming purposes for everyone, even for the administrators. Abdul Kalam tells us how the finest of people can be brought out. Abdul Kalam is referred to as 'spiritual scientist', his visions and contributions to his country.\par
\par
As a young man, Abdul Kalam was inquisitive and keen to learn more and more about science. Kalam's mentors persuaded him to ponder onto the great opportunity into space science and by achieving this India will become self-sufficient in aeronautical and rocket science. He was the first one with a vision that India has great potential in its space and satellite development of launch vehicles. SLV's provide as the foundation for a range of state-of-the-art missile technology in India's military.\par
\par
From an American viewpoint, 'when everyone is shouting bloody murder and weapon proliferation, Abdul Kalam's memories of France's taking away of support and fake accusations of German help serve as a alarming reminder that embargoing a country simply cannot work if the country's public is strong enough to control their own destiny. It's worrying that there is little debate on the ethics of an impoverished country developing nuclear weapons and deploying delivery systems. . . .But that's almost totally lost in the argument of self-reliance, a determination to never again surrender to foreign rule. '\par
\par
Abdul Kalam, an optimist, made helped India become self sufficient in its space and rocket technology. The book also inspires the youth of India living nationally and internationally that they appreciate the one marvel achieved by their nations hero, Abdul Kalam and strive themselves to become strong in every area of their profession and make India prosper for eternity.\par
\par
Abdul Kalam, the man with many names. He is most trusted man in India according to survey, He is also known as 'the missile man' of India. Abdul Kalam will be cherished long after he is gone, the man whom India loves.\par
\par
The book is a journey into Abdul Kalams life; the book however does not cover his presidency days that were published before he became the president of India. Abdul Kalam stayed in 'Ramesh Varam' which is famous for its 'Shiv' temple. The famous temple was few kilometers journey from Abdul Kalam's home, a Muslim dominated area.\par
\par
Abdul Kalam use to sell newspapers to help his brother, was good friend of the priest of the temple and his father was respectable man whom people used to turn for advice. Abdul Kalam writes about his school days, his brother in law's influence on him and his teachers in the initial chapters. He also writes about his financial challenges he faced during the time he was into education.\par
\par
The later chapters are some of Vikram Sarabhai's immense contribution in establishment of space research center and opening up new feet's for coming scientists. Abdul kalam's efforts in association with other scientist would make ordinary Indian understand the zeal , the effort of human soul in making India , a well respected country in space science.\par
\par
As a mentor of Abdul Kalam, Vikram Sarabhai had expert management skills and team building skills with which he groomed Abdul Kalam into becoming a scientist to remember for years to come.\par
\par
In one of his meeting with Vikram Sarabhai at 3 a.m, Abdul Kalam worked hours at stretch with his colleague for presentation to defense minister and he forgets an important personal event to attend to, this shows Kalams determination for his work and his country to succeed.\par
\par
ISRO, prithvi, agni, nag, trishul are some of the achievements which every Indian is proud of. It was a moment to cherish when India made its first journey to the moon and along with this journey to success was Abdul Kalams belief that nothing can stop India from reaching the stars and he certainly proved himself as one of the stars.\par
\par
Considering that this book comes from a scientist, this book does have little scientific narration. SLV, Geo satellite, composite material, mechanical engineering and such things. The journey itself always has technical errors especially when it's scientific in nature. Abdul Kalam, like the man himself forced his will to victory over failures, fears and disappointments.\par
\par
At the core, the book is about the great Indian dream. A wish that all the founding fathers of a country have, a wish fulfilled by Abdul Kalam.\par
\par
A country which is divided by religion and caste. A country which has a corrupt political system and where money rules, Abdul Kalam still made millions of citizens of India a proud nation.\par
\par
}
 